Add Avail Docs (#899)
maticnetwork/matic-docs: docs/avail/how-tos/avail-quick-start.md

---
id: avail-quick-start
title: How to use Polygon Avail
sidebar_label: How to use Avail
description: Learn how to use Polygon Avail
keywords:
  - docs
  - polygon
  - avail
  - data
  - availability
  - how-to
  - extrinsic
  - explorer
image: https://matic.network/banners/matic-network-16x9.png 
slug: avail-quick-start
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

> :::note We appreciate you using our devnet and providing us with valuable feedback. We are working on improving many of the current features, and we will keep you updated.

Author: Addressed

:::
 
## Generate an Avail Account

> 

Author: Addressed

if you are familiar with Polkadot-JS Apps.

:::

Navigate to the **Accounts** tab and click on the **Accounts** sub-tab.

<img src={useBaseUrl("img/avail/account.png")} width="100%" height="100%"/> 

:::info Address Format

As Avail is implemented using [Substrate](https://substrate.io/), generic Substrate addresses 
always start with a 5 and follow the **[SS58 address format](https://docs.substrate.io/v3/advanced/ss58/)**.

:::
  
On the Accounts page, click on the **Add account** button and follow the steps in the pop-up window.

<img src={useBaseUrl("img/avail/add-account.png")} width="100%" height="100%"/> 

:::caution Key Management

The seed phrase is your account key, which controls your account.
You should not store your seed phrase on a device that has or may have access to 
an internet connection. The seed phrase should be written down and stored on a non-digital 
medium.

:::

:::tip Account JSON file

Storing your account's JSON file does not have to be as rigourous as storing the seed phrase,
as long as you use a strong password to encrypt the file. You can import the JSON file to access
your account.

> :::

Reviewer: maybe merge these 2? to save some admonition boxes :)

Author: Addressed

## Receive AVL Testnet Tokens

> On Avail Apps, click on the icon next to your account name to copy your address.

Reviewer: I think e need an image here...showing the icon?

Author: Addressed

Alternatively, you can copy the address manually.

Head over to the [Polygon faucet](https://faucet.polygon.technology).

On the faucet page, select `DA Network`  and  `DA (Test Token)` as the network and token. 

> Paste your account address and click on **Submit**. The transfer will up to one 
> minute to complete.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Paste your account address and click on **Submit**. The transfer will be completed in up to one 
minute.
```

Author: Addressed

<img src={useBaseUrl("img/avail/faucet.png")} width="100%" height="100%"/> 

Upon successful transfer, your account should now have a non-zero balance. If you face any issues 

> obtaining tokens from the facuet, please reach out to the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
obtaining tokens from the faucet, please reach out to the 
```

Author: Addressed

[support team](https://support.polygon.technology/support/home).

## Submit a New Transaction

On Avail Apps, navigate to the **Developer** tab and click on the **Extrinsics** sub-tab.

<img src={useBaseUrl("img/avail/developer.png")} width="100%" height="100%"/> 

Select your newly created account. 

<img src={useBaseUrl("img/avail/developer-account.png")} width="100%" height="100%"/> 

There are many extrinsics to choose from; go ahead and select
the `dataAvailability` extrinsic from the **extrinsic dropdown menu**.

:::info What are extrinsics?

Extrinsics are a form of external information and can either be inherents, signed transactions,
or unsigned Transactions. More details about extrinsics are available in the 
[Substrate documentation](https://docs.substrate.io/v3/concepts/extrinsics/).

:::

You can then use the dropdown menu on the right-hand side to create an application key or 
submit data.

> 

Reviewer: Again we could write something before splitting the article so that the user would know which option he should choose next

<Tabs
  defaultValue="key"
  values={[
    { label: 'Create an application key', value: 'key', },
    { label: 'Submit data', value: 'data', },
  ]
}>
<TabItem value="key">

In this example, `createApplicationKey` is used to create an application key.

<img src={useBaseUrl("img/avail/da-app-key.png")} width="100%" height="100%"/> 

Enter the value you wish to submit as part of this transaction using the `App_ID` or 

> without its default key value as `0`.

Reviewer: is it really "without"? Sorry, didnt catch that part

Author: Addressed
